readme.md, before:

# Sehm

sehm: S-Expression based Html Markup, for arc

## Basics

sehm is an engine for writing html using arc expressions.

    (div 'id "demo" 'class "wide"
         (span 'class "name" "Sehm"))

Renders into:

    <div id="demo" class="wide">
      <span class="name">
        Sehm
      </span>
    </div>

Here, 'div is a tag function. It parses its arguments into pairs of attributes and values, followed by a list of child nodes. Attributes are specified by symbols, so there's no ambiguity.

    (tag 'attr val 'attr val content content content)

The 'content' can be anything really, but typically it's either another node, a string, or a list of anything. It can be a list of lists, too. If a node is not a string or a tag, it will be output according to how 'pr prints it. If a node is nil, it's ignored.

Attributes values can also be anything, but typically they're strings. Attribute names *must* be symbols: that's how we know they are attributes. If the value passed to the attribute is nil, the attribute is ignored.

There are no macros involved here. 'div is a function, and the arguments passed to it are parsed by a function.

'div and other tag functions don't return a string. Instead, they return a tag/node object, which is just an annotated hashtable with the following fields:

* name: the tag name, e.g. "div"
* attrs: an associated list of attributes
* children: a list of child nodes

This object is rendered into a string using `render-html` which outputs the result to stdout. 

To capture the output as a string, use `tostring:render-html`

`div` and `span` are convenience methods. Not all tags have methods defined in their names. To produce a generic tag, use the `element` function (or `e` for short):

    (e "div" 'class "myclass" "content" "content")

## Custom tags

You can create custom tags

Instead of writing:

    (div 'class "user"
      (span 'class "username" username)
      (span 'class "email" email))

You could write:

    (userdiv username email)

Where userdiv could be defined like this:

    (deftag userdiv
      (with (username (children 0) email (children 1))
        (div 'class "user"
          (span 'class "username" username)
          (span 'class "email" email))))

'deftag is a macro. It creates a function that automatically parses its arguments into 'attrs and 'children.
Since 'attrs is an alist, deftag also provides 'attr as a way of retriving an attributes. 

It can be sometimes useful to remove or add attributes, so 'deftag defines 'popattr to retrive an attribute and remove it from 'attrs, and 'addattr which accepts any number of 'attr val arguments and adds them as new attributes to 'attrs.

This means custom tags can process custom attributes:

    (deftag items
        (e "ul" 'class attr!class
           (map [e "li" 'class attr!itemclass _] children)))

This tag produces a ul with the class specified by 'class, and applies the class specified by 'itemclass to each li element.

    arc> (render-html (items 'class "list" 'itemclass "item" "first" "second" "third"))
    <ul class="list">
      <li class="item">
        first
      </li>
      <li class="item">
        second
      </li>
      <li class="item">
        third
      </li>
    </ul>
    nil

But because everything is a regular function, you can define custom tags as simple functions, without resorting to the deftag macro. The 'userdiv example from above can be defined simply as:

    (def userdiv (username email)
        (div 'class "user"
          (span 'class "username" username)
          (span 'class "email" email)))

And it would work just the same.

The point of deftag is that it parses the arguments passed to the function as attributes and children.

## Templates

Custom tags can serve as layout templates. 


    (def jscript args
            "takes a list of js files and creates tags to include them"
            (map [e "script" 'type "text/javascript" 'src _] (flat args)))

    (def csslink args
            "takes a list of css files and creates tags to include them"
            (map [e "link" 'rel "stylesheet" 'type "text/css" 'href _] (flat args)))

    (deftag page
        (html
          (head (title attr!title)
                (jscript attr!js)
                (csslink attr!css))
          (body children)))

Here, jscript and csslink are custom tags that produce the html biolerplates necessary to include .js and .css files.

`page` is a custom tag that can also be thought of as a layout template. 

The point of a template is to specify the general structure of a page, while putting placeholders for things to be filled out later on. Because custom tags can process custom attributes, these attributes can be used to specify placeholders for templates.

    arc> (render-html (page 'title "Html template" 'js '("first.js" "second.js") (div "This is my content")))
    <!doctype html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Html template</title>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="first.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="second.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body>
        <div>
          This is my content
        </div>
      </body>
    </html>
    nil


The `page` template processes `js` and `css` attributes, but it's very nil-tolerant. In the above example, we didn't pass anything to `css`, and everything still worked as we expected.

Because a template is nothing more than a custom tag, and because tags are defined in terms of other tags, it follows that we can create templates based on other templates.

    (deftag blogpage
            (page 'title "Blog post" 'js "blog.js" 'css "blog.css" (div 'class "blogpost" children)))

Here, we're defining a specific kind of page, which fills most things for us.

    arc> (render-html (blogpage (p "In this post we discuss" (e "a" 'href "http://arclanguage.org" "Arc"))))
    <!doctype html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Blog post</title>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="blog.js"></script>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="blog.css" />
      </head>
      <body>
        <div class="blogpost">
          <p>In this post we discuss <a href="http://arclanguage.org">Arc</a></p>
        </div>
      </body>
    </html>
    nil

### More examples

The file 'tests.arc' provides a few usage examples. The output of tests.arc simulates a command prompt so that should make it easier to read.

Commit message:

updated the readme and added an inlinejs tag.

readme.md, after:

# Sehm

sehm: S-Expression based Html Markup, for arc

## Basics

sehm is an engine for writing html using arc expressions.

    (div 'id "demo" 'class "wide"
         (span 'class "name" "Sehm"))

Renders into:

    <div id="demo" class="wide">
      <span class="name">
        Sehm
      </span>
    </div>

Here, 'div is a tag function. It parses its arguments into pairs of attributes and values, followed by a list of child nodes. Attributes are specified by symbols, so there's no ambiguity.

    (tag 'attr val 'attr val content content content)

The 'content' can be anything really, but typically it's either another node, a string, or a list of anything. It can be a list of lists, too. If a node is not a string or a tag, it will be output according to how 'pr prints it. If a node is nil, it's ignored.

Attributes values can also be anything, but typically they're strings. Attribute names *must* be symbols: that's how we know they are attributes. If the value passed to the attribute is nil, the attribute is ignored.

There are no macros involved here. 'div is a function, and the arguments passed to it are parsed by a function.

'div and other tag functions don't return a string. Instead, they return a tag/node object, which is just an annotated hashtable with the following fields:

* name: the tag name, e.g. "div"
* attrs: an associated list of attributes
* children: a list of child nodes

This object is rendered into a string using `render-html` which outputs the result to stdout. 

To capture the output as a string, use `tostring:render-html`

`div` and `span` are convenience methods. Not all tags have methods defined in their names. To produce a generic tag, use the `element` function (or `e` for short):

    (e "div" 'class "myclass" "content" "content")

## Custom tags

You can create custom tags

Instead of writing:

    (div 'class "user"
      (span 'class "username" username)
      (span 'class "email" email))

You could write:

    (userdiv username email)

Where userdiv could be defined like this:

    (deftag userdiv
      (let (username email) children
        (div 'class "user"
          (span 'class "username" username)
          (span 'class "email" email))))

'deftag is a macro. It creates a function that automatically parses its arguments into 'attrs and 'children.
Since 'attrs is an alist, deftag also provides 'attr as a way of accessing attributes using `attr!something`

It can be sometimes useful to remove or add attributes to `attrs`, so 'deftag defines 'popattr to retrive an attribute and remove it from 'attrs, and 'addattr which accepts any number of `'attr val` arguments and adds them as new attributes to 'attrs.

This means custom tags can process custom attributes:

    (deftag items
        (e "ul" 'class attr!class
           (map [e "li" 'class attr!itemclass _] children)))

This tag produces a `ul` with the class specified by 'class, and applies the class specified by 'itemclass to each `li` element.

    arc> (render-html (items 'class "list" 'itemclass "item" "first" "second" "third"))
    <ul class="list">
      <li class="item">
        first
      </li>
      <li class="item">
        second
      </li>
      <li class="item">
        third
      </li>
    </ul>
    nil

But because everything is a regular function, you can define custom tags as simple functions, without resorting to the deftag macro. The 'userdiv example from above can be defined simply as:

    (def userdiv (username email)
        (div 'class "user"
          (span 'class "username" username)
          (span 'class "email" email)))


And it would work just the same.

The point of deftag is that it parses the arguments passed to the function as attributes and children.

## Templates

Custom tags can serve as layout templates. 


    (def jscript args
            "takes a list of js files and creates tags to include them"
            (map [e "script" 'type "text/javascript" 'src _] (flat args)))

    (def csslink args
            "takes a list of css files and creates tags to include them"
            (map [e "link" 'rel "stylesheet" 'type "text/css" 'href _] (flat args)))

    (deftag page
        (html
          (head (title attr!title)
                (jscript attr!js)
                (csslink attr!css))
          (body children)))

Here, jscript and csslink are custom tags that produce the html biolerplates necessary to include .js and .css files.

`page` is a custom tag that can also be thought of as a layout template.

The point of a template is to specify the general structure of a page, while putting placeholders for things to be filled out later on. Because custom tags can process custom attributes, these attributes can be used to specify placeholders for templates.

For example:

    (title attr!title)

The attribute denoted by 'title is passed to the `title` tag.

    arc> (render-html (page 'title "Html template" 'js '("first.js" "second.js") (div "This is my content")))
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Html template</title>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="first.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="second.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body>
        <div>
          This is my content
        </div>
      </body>
    </html>
    nil

The `page` template processes `js` and `css` attributes, but it's very nil-tolerant. In the above example, we didn't pass anything to `css`, and everything still worked as we expected.

Because a template is nothing more than a custom tag, and because tags are defined in terms of other tags, it follows that we can create templates based on other templates.

    (deftag blogpage
            (page 'title "Blog post" 'js "blog.js" 'css "blog.css" (div 'class "blogpost" children)))

Here, we're defining a specific kind of page, which fills most things for us.

    arc> (render-html (blogpage (p "In this post we discuss" (e "a" 'href "http://arclanguage.org" "Arc"))))
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Blog post</title>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="blog.js"></script>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="blog.css" />
      </head>
      <body>
        <div class="blogpost">
          <p>In this post we discuss <a href="http://arclanguage.org">Arc</a></p>
        </div>
      </body>
    </html>
    nil

## Batteries included (kinda)

sehm attempts to include a number of useful custom tags.

* jscript: for including a bunch of js paths
* csslink: for including a bunch of css paths
* inlinecss: a style tag where you can write css
* inlinejs: a script tag with js code inside
* row: stacks items horiztonally inside a table
* col: stacks items vertically using divs (no tables)
* link: takes an href and a string to create an html link.
* page: a very simple page skeleton 

## More examples

The file 'tests.arc' provides a few usage examples. The output of tests.arc simulates a command prompt so that should make it easier to read.
